ARCHIVAL CAPTURE 2026-07-31
URL: https://www2.ljworld.com/news/schools/2026/jun/04/federal-judge-orders-lawrence-school-district-to-pay-attorney-fees-to-students-in-gaggle-case-after-kora-violations/

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Federal judge orders Lawrence school district to pay attorney fees to students in Gaggle case | News, Sports, Jobs - Lawrence Journal-World: news, information, headlines and events in Lawrence, Kansas 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -->
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 






 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 







 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 




















 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 newslink 
 
 
 
 
 
 News 
 Sports 
 Opinion 
 Health/Living 
 Obituaries 
 Jobs 
 Classifieds 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SUBSCRIBE 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 August 04, 2026 
 | 
 Today's Paper 
 | 
 Submit News 
 | 
 Subscribe Today 
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Federal judge orders Lawrence school district to pay attorney fees to students in Gaggle case 
 
 
 
 K-12 Education 
 Jun 4, 2026 - 3:42pm 
 
 Josie Heimsoth 
 
 jheimsoth@ljworld.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 -->
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 photo by: Josie Heimsoth/Journal-World 
 The Lawrence school district offices building, located at 110 McDonald Dr., is pictured in May 2025. SHOW ARTICLE 
 -->
 A federal judge has ordered the Lawrence school district to pay attorney fees to students in a lawsuit over the district’s use of monitoring software after violating the Kansas Open Records Act. 
 On Monday, U.S. District Court Judge Kathryn Vratil ruled that the Lawrence school district did not act in good faith after not responding within the required timeframe to students’ Kansas Open Records Act requests. Now, the district must reimburse the plaintiff’s attorney fees and costs to the plaintiffs. 
 As the Journal-World reported , the subject of the KORA requests was from student journalists inquiring about the safety management and monitoring software Gaggle, and the district’s switch to a similar program, ManagedMethods. Vratil found that the district violated KORA in April, and ordered the district to comply and respond to the requests. 
 At a hearing on April 23, Superintendent Jeanice Swift testified that the district delayed compliance because of concerns about protecting student privacy, the scope of the requests being “more expansive than (the) defendant had ever received,” and uncertainty about how the requests would interact with ongoing litigation. 
 However, it was unclear to Vratil whether the district even attempted addressing Swift’s concerns through consultation with legal counsel. 
 Monday’s order said that KORA does allow agencies to redact sensitive information while still producing records, and it even provides mechanisms for claiming a request is unreasonably burdensome. The district failed to timely justify any concerns, provide cost estimates or detailed explanations until months after the requests were submitted. 
 There is also evidence that district officials were sensitive to public scrutiny surrounding student monitoring practices and were focused on managing public perception, the order said. The judge compared the district’s conduct to a prior Kansas Supreme Court case involving agency “stonewalling,” describing USD 497’s response as “drawn out, hollow and perplexing.” 
 “Absent the Court’s order, it is unclear when – if ever – defendant would have complied with KORA,” the order said. 
 While the court did not require all records be produced immediately, it directed the district to continue making KORA-compliant disclosures and submit weekly status reports beginning June 12. 
 Current and former Lawrence and Free State High School students filed a lawsuit in August 2025, alleging that the Lawrence school district has been violating their First and Fourth Amendment rights by conducting illegal searches of the digital files the student journalists produce. The defendants in the case are the school district. 
 While the district has stopped using Gaggle, the district entered into another contract with a different student monitoring software, ManagedMethods. The transition to ManagedMethods was not voted on by board members, as the Journal-World reported. 
 The district argues that it has continued using a similar software in order to be in compliance with legislation such as the Children’s Internet Protection Act to ensure student safety. 
 A timeline for the remainder of the case set a discovery deadline of Sept. 11, a pretrial conference is proposed for Sept. 30 and the jury trial is currently scheduled for Jan. 4, 2027. The court estimates the trial to last eight to 10 days. 
 The Journal-World has reached out to the school district for comment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Show/Post Comments 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other News 
 
 
 
 Polls have closed; follow vote totals here as Kansans decide constitutional amendment, host of primary races 

 
 
 
 
 Clinton Lake outer road to be reduced to one lane for asphalt resurfacing project 

 
 
 
 
 Primary election will take place on Tuesday; here’s everything to know 

 
 
 
 
 PHOTOS: Demolition Derby and other Douglas County Fair happenings 

 
 
 
 
 ‘Let’s meet again’: Near the end of their trip, Japanese students celebrate their sister city bond with Lawrence 

 
 
 
 
 Go, See, Do: Art shows, Douglas County Fair finale and more 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Newsletter 
 The latest headlines from the Lawrence Journal-World and KUsports.com, delivered straight to your inbox. 

 
 
 SIGN UP NOW! 
 
 


 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
--> 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us 
 
 Staff phones and emails 
 Submit news 
 Advertising inquiries 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 
 
 News 
 
 All news 
 Public safety 
 City government 
 State government 
 Town Talk column 
 
 
 Sports 
 
 All sports 
 KU men’s basketball 
 KU football 
 Staff columns 
 Lawrence High 
 Free State 
 
 
 More 
 
 Submit a vacation hold 
 Pay your print subscription bill 
 E-Edition 
 Weather 
 Obituaries 
 Couples announcements 
 Classifieds 
 Jobs 
 Deals 
 Circulars 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 2026 Ogden Newspapers of Kansas, LLC | https://www2.ljworld.com | 1035 N. Third Street, Lawrence, KS 66044 | 785-843-1000 | Terms of Service 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My account 
 Subscribe today 
 News 
 
 All 
 Public safety 
 City government 
 State government 
 Town Talk column 
 K-12 education 
 KU 
 County government 
 Statewide news 
 National news 
 Business 
 Old Hometown 
 
 
 Sports 
 
 All 
 Sports columns 
 KU men’s basketball 
 KU women’s basketball 
 KU football 
 KU volleyball 
 KU Sports 
 Lawrence High 
 Free State 
 Seabury 
 Veritas 
 
 
 Opinion 
 
 All 
 Letters to the editor 
 National columns 
 Local columns 
 Editorials 
 Your Turn 
 
 
 Health 
 Living 
 
 Lifestyle columns 
 Home and Garden 
 Arts and Entertainment 
 Food 
 
 
 Photos 
 Weather 
 Life Events 
 
 Obituaries 
 Births 
 Marriages, Divorces and Bankruptcies 
 Couples Announcements 
 Real Estate Transfers 
 
 
 Contact us 
 
 Phone and email 
 Submit news 
 Submit letters to the editor 
 Submit obituaries and celebrations 
 Statement of Values 
 
 
 View e-Edition 
 Subscriptions 
 
 Submit a vacation hold 
 Subscription Online Bill Pay 
 Missed Paper Form 
 
 
 Advertise 
 Community Organizations 
 
 News from The Chamber 
 News from Lawrence Public Library 
 News and Information from the Lawrence Police Department 
 
 
 Classifieds 
 Jobs 
 Customer Service FAQ 

 
 
 
 
 
 





 

 
 

 


 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 