ARCHIVAL CAPTURE 2026-07-31
URL: https://portal.ct.gov/das/ctedtech/commission-for-educational-technology/initiatives/artificial-intelligence


 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 Guidance on Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 



 
 
 webpages 
 Guidance on Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
 
 -->

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 -->
 
 

 

 


 

 
 
 



 
 
 
 Skip to Content 
 Skip to Chat 
 

 


 

 
 
 

 
 

 








 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 Report an accessibility issue.
 
 
 
 

 










 
 
 
 

 
 State of Connecticut 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 × 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 search 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 
 
 
 Language
 
 
 

 
 Arabic 
 
 
 Chinese (Simplified) 
 
 
 Chinese (Traditional) 
 
 
 English 
 
 
 French 
 
 
 German 
 
 
 Haitian Creole 
 
 
 Hindi 
 
 
 Italian 
 
 
 Korean 
 
 
 Pashto 
 
 
 Polish 
 
 
 Portuguese (Brazil) 
 
 
 Russian 
 
 
 Spanish 
 
 
 Filipino 
 
 
 Ukrainian 
 
 
 Vietnamese 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 




 


 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Administrative Services 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Administrative Services
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 


 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 Administrative Services 
 ☰ 
 Administrative Services 
 Main Menu 
 

 

 

 
 
 × 
 Close
 

 
 ⮐ 
 Back
 

 
 ⮐ 
 Back
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 
 Agency Services 
 
 
 Business Office 
 
 
 MIRA 
 
 Collections 
 

 
 
 Innovation 
 
 
 IT Policies and General Letters 
 
 IT Services 
 
 DAS BITS Service Desk 
 
 BizNet 
 

 
 
 Compliance 
 
 
 
 Vehicles 
 
 
 Fleet Vehicle Training 
 

 
 
 Leasing & Property 
 
 
 
 Facilities 
 
 
 
 Policies 
 
 
 
 Safety & Inspections 
 
 
 
 Fire Safe CT 
 
 State Building Code 
 
 State Fire Marshal 
 
 Inspector Licensing and Training 
 
 Education and Data Management 
 

 
 
 Construction 
 
 
 DAS Construction Services Library 
 

 
 

 
 
 Procurement 
 
 
 State Contracting Portal 
 
 
 
 Business Access 
 
 
 Contractor Prequalification 
 
 Small Business Certification 
 

 
 
 Environmentally Preferable Purchasing 
 
 
 
 Surplus 
 
 
 
 General Letter 71 
 
 
 

 
 
 School Construction Grants 
 
 
 Priority List 
 
 
 Priority List Grant Process 
 

 
 
 Non-priority List 
 
 
 HVAC Grants 
 
 Non-Priority List Grant Process 
 

 
 
 Plan Review 
 
 
 
 School Construction Grant Resources 
 
 
 Forms 
 
 Apply for School Construction Grants 
 
 Reimbursement Rates 
 

 
 
 Closure and Audit Procedures 
 
 
 

 
 
 Employee Services 
 
 
 Service Desk 
 
 
 
 Holidays 
 
 
 
 Development 
 
 
 
 Medical & Family Leave 
 
 
 
 Jobs & Benefits 
 
 
 Military Talent 
 
 Applicant Reference Library 
 

 
 
 Human Resources 
 
 
 HR Policies and General Letters 
 
 Compensation Plans 
 
 Reemployment, Transfer, & Reinstatement Services 
 
 SmART 
 

 
 
 Security 
 
 
 
 Workers’ Comp 
 
 
 

 
 
 Updates 
 
 
 
 DAS Blog 
 
 
 
 Legislative Affairs 
 
 
 
 Digests & Reports 
 
 
 
 Press Releases 
 
 
 

 
 
 About DAS 
 
 
 Boards & Commissions 
 
 
 
 Meet the Commissioner 
 
 
 
 Organizational Chart 
 
 
 
 Governor's Fellowship Program 
 
 
 

 
 
 Contact 
 
 
 DAS BITS Help Desk 
 
 
 
 FOIA Requests 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 You are about to Logout
 
 
 × 
 
 
 
 Are you sure you want to log out of your account? If you do want to logout, please click "Logout".
 
 

 
 Cancel
 

 
 Logout
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 






 

 
 
 


 
 
 





 
 

 
 
 
 CT.gov Home 
 

 das 
 
 

 Connecticut Commission for Educational Technology 
 
 Current: Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
 
 
 
 

 


 
 



 
 
 
 Initiatives 
 
 
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
 
 
 Digital Learning Standards 
 
 
 Digital Opportunity 
 
 
 E-rate 
 
 
 Ed Tech Effectiveness 
 
 
 Online Courseware 
 
 
 Open Education Resources 
 
 
 Personalized Learning 
 
 
 Privacy and Security Best Practices 
 
 
 Student Data Privacy 
 
 
 Technology Sustainability 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Search Connecticut Commission for Educational Technology 
 
 

 
 Search the current Topic with a Keyword 
 
 
 
 Filtered Topic Search 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 




 
 
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
 Commission Home << Initiatives 
 
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) 

 
 1: Introduction 
 
 Artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, and general algorithmic tools have played a role in teaching and learning for decades, albeit generally an invisible one. From tools that students engage with to deepen and personalize learning to organizational and decision-support systems that teachers and administrators leverage, technology has become ubiquitous in all aspects of learning. 
 More recently, AI tools have taken on a prominent role in discussions concerning the future of education, for several important reasons: 
 
 Access: The public — including students, teachers, and parents — now have easy access to tools that leverage AI, such as ChatGPT from OpenAI, Claude from Anthropic, and other forms of large language models (LLMs). Such applications have enabled anyone to use and understand the power of AI for learning and many other aspects of life. 
 Integration: In addition to obvious uses of AI, such as standalone tools, software for general and educational use now has AI components that speed and personalize user experiences and inform decision making. 
 Acceleration: Unprecedented investments in AI and the rapid acceleration of new forms of these tools have spurred a sense of urgency to understand and apply them thoughtfully to teaching and learning. 
 
 Now more than ever, innovations in technology remain critical to education as both enablers as well as sources of potential risk. This set of guidance and resources should help to equip educators, leaders, and anyone engaged in the education community to learn more about AI and its role in education, explore and implement approaches to safe and effective integration, and establish consistent frameworks for ongoing innovation and decision-making. This work should continue as new technologies emerge with different potential roles within and risks to teaching and learning. Toward that end, the Commission sees as a common goal that all students would have a baseline understanding of AI in the context of broader digital literacy, a core component of any “portrait of the graduate” in preparation for college and careers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 2: Types and Applications 
 
 The term “AI” appears broadly in conversations about emerging technology, often with little context. Use cases can include the generative AI serving as an “assistant” with student writing, all the way to automated robotic systems. As noted above, AI remains a broad and rapidly accelerating area of research and applications. To ground this set of guidance and resources, the following categories of AI may be helpful: 
 
 Automated Planning and Scheduling 
 Computer Vision 
 Knowledge-Based Systems 
 Machine Learning 
 Natural Language Processing 
 Robotics 
 
 For a more detailed schematic of AI definitions and types, see page 15 of the US Department of Education’s Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Teaching and Learning, referencing the work of Regona et al . The Center for Integrative Research in Computing and Learning Sciences (CIRCLS) has an excellent and often-updated Glossary of Artificial Intelligence Terms for Educators . 
 In the context of education, especially K - 12 education, AI already has a place in the following arenas (listed alphabetically): 
 
 Accessibility and Student Accommodation 
 Assessment and Reporting 
 Classroom Instruction 
 Decision-Support Systems 
 Facility Management 
 Finance 
 Human Resources and Recruitment 
 Operational Systems 
 Professional Development 
 Strategic Planning 
 Student Services (Special Education) 
 Teacher Evaluation 
 Technology Management 
 
   
 
 
 3: Instructional and Decision-Making Best Practices 
 
 The marketplace of educational tools that leverage AI continues to expand. As individual teachers and leadership teams consider the use of AI-powered apps, the following best practices in software use may provide assistance. 
 
 Platform Selection: Use of any software to support student learning or school operations should follow the same, repeatable processes. A set of stakeholders should identify the need (e.g., increase numeracy skills among fourth-grade students) and consider any shortcomings in the tools and approaches currently in use to address that need. With those specific objectives documented, peer recommendations and research can bring to light potential applications that educators may wish to adopt at the classroom, school, or district level. 
 Privacy and Data Collection: As part of the selection process and in ongoing use, schools should assess the breadth and type of data that AI-powered tools collect. Public schools must adhere to Connecticut’s data privacy laws, with guidance on doing so available through the Commission’s Student Data Privacy Web page . The Connecticut Educational Software Hub , powered by LearnPlatform, offers details on thousands of instructional apps to assist with this process. 
 Training and Support: Teachers will need a baseline understanding of AI technology and how it applies to their particular subject area and grade levels. This professional development applies to the use of AI tools for instruction, planning, and other activities as well as how to model and support effective use by teachers. See the training resources below for ways to begin supporting educators and leaders in the use of AI. 
 Community Engagement and Input: Many parents and other stakeholders are learning about AI in their personal and professional lives and may have questions about its use in their children’s schools. Leaders may consider forming an advisory around the use of technology generally and AI tools specifically to encourage a culture of learning and transparency, as well as to tap the expertise that community experts may offer. The ILO Group has sound guidance on community engagement in its Artificial Intelligence Framework for District Leaders . 
 Incident Reporting: Considering appropriate and ethical use of AI tools, schools should consider broadening existing incident-reporting protocols to include misuse of technology. For example, AI tools can be used to create so-called “deep fakes,” highly realistic but unauthorized images, audio, or other content. 
 
 
 
 4: Risks 
 
 The above best practices point to a number of potential risks when teachers and school leaders leverage AI-powered tools: 
 
 Bias: Machine learning systems improve through the process of interpreting and making predictions off of data sets. For example, a decision-support system may look at inputs such as grades, attendance, and discipline history and predict at-risk students. But the “training” data sets used to hone such tools may have bias incorporated into them. In the above case, human teachers may have been more inclined to discipline students in specific subgroups, leading to increased frequency of detentions, etc. A computer will look at these trends and “predict” that all students in that subgroup are more likely “at risk.” The same goes for the formulas or algorithms that run such systems. They may look at hiring trends, for example, for certain jobs and conclude that specific genders or life experiences make candidates more qualified, even if the existing employee set has been chosen through human bias toward one group or another. Generally, AI does not impose lenses of equity and inclusion on the systems we use. 
 
 >> Steps to Consider: Especially for high-stakes systems that manage large swaths of student or sensitive employee data, and which leaders use to make decisions about instruction, advancement, etc., districts should engage with providers of such systems to get additional details on training data and algorithms. Educational software developers should already be attuned to these issues and be prepared to address ethical considerations such as bias in the development of their products. 
 
 
 Inaccuracy: The concept of a “human in the middle” is essential in using AI-powered software. Such tools are extremely good at predicting the logical sequence of words, numbers, or code, but at the time of this writing are still not “sentient” and capable of interpreting results through a human-like lens. The content that systems collect and use as the basis for predictions include accurate as well as inaccurate writing, calculations, etc. To use the concept of “quality control,” a certain amount of inaccurate or even harmful and biased content inevitably becomes part of the data on which AI systems function. 
 
 >> Steps to Consider: Always interpret AI-driven results, content, and recommendations with discernment. They can accelerate and inform decision-making and content creation, but they can also include errors. 
 
 
 Intellectual Property and Plagiarism: One of the most common use cases in schools today on the use of AI is students using tools to write papers, complete math homework, or code projects for computer science or data analytics courses. Current AI tools are quite good at this work, and the temptation can be strong to use shortcuts in this regard. 
 
 >> Steps to Consider: Equip teachers with relevant and timely professional development to understand how current AI tools can be used appropriately for designing prompts and interpreting results. Educators should in turn model effective and responsible use of such tools. Engaging in a “dialog” with a large language model, for example, may help students identify errors in their work or hone language for an essay. They will use these tools in their future education and work lives, and schools should model effective use starting now. 
 
 
 Legal: Closely tied to the points above regarding intellectual property and plagiarism, use of AI tools still falls under existing legal frameworks concerning the misappropriation and misuse of content. At the time of this writing, Connecticut had considered but not yet put in place specific laws concerning issues such as the creation of likenesses (see CT House Bill 24-5421 , “An Act Concerning Unlawful Dissemination of Intimate Images That Are Digitally Altered or Created through the Use of Artificial Intelligence”). During the 2024 legislative session, the General Assembly did put in place provisions for a pilot of “AI tools” in a limited number of schools as well as a call for teacher professional development (see Public Act 24-151 ). 
 
 >> Steps to Consider: Misuse of any type of content still falls under existing statute, so maintaining a solid understanding of existing general school law will help leaders frame current and future considerations regarding the legal ramifications of unlawful creation and dissemination of content. 
 
 
 Social and Emotional: The above example of “deep fake” image creation has already had significantly damaging impacts, especially on female students. The rapid acceleration of AI capabilities points to the likely increase and complexity of issues concerning student access to harmful digital content. Even less damaging scenarios may further isolate young people and negatively impact emotional well-being. The trajectory of digital “companions” is steep, with people of all ages already engaged in chatting with AI-powered bots that simulate behaviors of human companionship. Increased use of such tools may further isolate students, taking the place of authentic relationships. 
 
 >> Steps to Consider: For those leading efforts to support the social and emotional wellbeing of students, become familiar with common AI tools and potential applications. This work can take place through existing professional development in this area, leveraging the resources provided from the Connecticut State Department of Education’s SEL page . Honest discussions with and support of students addressing the use of these tools will help identify and address potential risks of new technologies that leverage AI. 
 
 
 Equity of Access: The enormous potential of AI tools to accelerate and personalize learning also comes with a potential to broaden existing digital divides. Students with computers and home broadband connections, as well as strong teacher support to model AI tools, will have an opportunity to learn how to use such apps effectively. In the same vein, learners without access to technology will fall farther behind in understanding and mastering the use of emerging tools. 
 
 >> Steps to Consider: State and school leaders have taken great strides, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, to ensure equitable access to technology for all students. Laptop programs where students have a computer to take home are nearly ubiquitous at higher grade levels, and leaders should commit to establishing and maintaining such programs. Schools should assess student access to broadband at home as well, a relatively easy exercise by assessing student online activities after hours (e.g., submission of homework). All major Internet carriers offer low-cost Internet options that schools can promote to disconnected families, and many districts address short- and long-term connectivity issues by offering cellular hotspots for student use or partnering with local Internet service providers to offer volume purchasing. The Commission is actively leading statewide efforts in this area, addressing the needs of residents broadly, through its Digital Equity Program ( CT.gov/DigitalEquity ). 
 
   
 
 
 5: Policy and Guidance 
 
 Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies often disrupt education environments and school climates. Each of the above risks provides an opportunity to learn, grow, and address the needs of students and staff. 
 In this regard, the creation of new school policies that address specific technologies can prove inefficient and burdensome to maintain. District administrators and school board members should consider whether AI truly “breaks'' existing policy (that is, requires separate and new guidance), or whether existing frameworks can adapt to and address emerging technologies. Ways of addressing plagiarism and cheating, harassment, bullying, and data privacy should remain consistent, even if new technologies may introduce new challenges of understanding and application. 
 
The Commission has encouraged school boards to consider language that encourages responsible use of technology in its policy manuals (see Policy Guidance to Promote Digital Learning ). Other benchmarks to consider, both within the K - 12 environment and more generally, include the following: 
 
 Connecticut Association of Boards of Education (CABE) Policy Manual , including its Generative AI Policy . 
 Federal legislation and guidance governing educational technology and student privacy (CIPA, COPPA, FERPA, and IDEA). 
 State statute regarding artificial intelligence:  Public Act 24-151  calls for the Connecticut State Department of Education (CSDE) to create of "an artificial intelligence education tool pilot program" by the end of the 2024 – 25 school year (see  Section 143 ) to include professional development for educators (see  Section 144 ). That same law calls on the CSDE in collaboration with the Connecticut Commission for Educational Technology to create a model digital citizenship curriculum for K–12 students (see  Section 145 ).  
 State statute governing student data privacy ( CGS §§ 10-234aa-dd ) and the Commission’s resource page on the topic. 
 Connecticut Office of Policy and Management (OPM) policies addressing technology , including a policy framework on Artificial Intelligence 
 White House Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights . 
 
 
 
 6: Resources 
 
 The nature of emerging technologies and innovations in education mean that any set of references and resources will remain fluid, a list at a point in time. The Commission intends the following to equip district leaders, educators, and families to explore and make effective use of AI for learning at all levels. 
 General Reference 
 
 Glossary of Terms 
 Types of Artificial Intelligence 
 
 Policy and Frameworks 
 
 U.S. Department of Education 
 
 
 Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Teaching and Learning 
 Privacy Technical Assistance Center 
 
 
 Various States: AI Policy Compendium 
 Digital Promise: Revealing an AI Literacy Framework for Learners and Educators  
 Friday Institute: Educators’ Perspectives on Generative AI in K-12: Informing AI in Education Guidance 
 ILO Group: Artificial Intelligence Framework for District Leaders 
 Kapor Foundation: Equitable Technology Policy Initiative 
 
 Teaching Resources 
 
 Code.org: Teach AI 
 EdAdvance: AI Community of Practice and Podcast (ChatEDU) 
 Google: LearnLM Tools 
 ISTE: Artificial Intelligence in Education 
 Microsoft: Education AI Toolkit 
 RESC Alliance: AI Community of Practice 
 
 Developer Resources 
 
 U.S. Department of Education:  Designing for Education with Artificial Intelligence: An Essential Guide for Developers 
 
 
 
 7: Acknowledgements 
 
 The Commission for Educational Technology thanks the members of its Digital Learning Advisory Council for their guidance and input on this report: 
 
 Nick Caruso (Chair) — Senior Staff Associate for Field Service, CABE* 
 Jonathan Costa — Assistant Executive Director, EdAdvance 
 Larry Covino — Executive Director, Connecticut Association for Adult and Continuing Education 
 Andy DePalma — Director of Technology, EASTCONN 
 Josh Elliott — Associate Dean, Fairfield University School of Education and Human Development 
 Shaune Gilbert — Data Manager, ReadyCT 
 Jody Goeler — Senior Staff Associate for Policy Services, CABE 
 Barbara Johnson — Library Media Specialist, Colchester Public Schools 
 Jim Mindek — Information Technology, Connecticut Technical High School System 
 Josh Smith — Superintendent, Region 15 Public Schools 
 Karen Skudlarek — Educational Technologist, University of Connecticut 
 Chinma Uche — Computer Science Teacher, CREC Academy of Aerospace and Engineering, and President, CT Computer Science Teachers Association 
 Scott Zak* — Senior Director of Learning Technologies, CT State Colleges and Universities 
 
 *Also serves as a Commission member 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 






 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 450 Columbus Boulevard 
Hartford CT 06103
 

 


 






 




 








 

 
 
 






 

 
 
﻿ 
 
 
 About DAS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Boards & Commissions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Meet the Commissioner
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Organizational Chart
 
 
 
 
 
﻿ 
 
 
 Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Service Desk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FOIA Requests
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Releases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 About CT 
 
 Policies 
 
 Accessibility 
 
 Directories 
 
 Social Media 
 
 For State Employees 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 United States
 
 Mast: 
 (Full) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Connecticut
 
 Mast: 
 (Full) 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 © 2026 CT.gov - Connecticut's Official State Website 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 